weave-Get prompt-docs-1975 (#2290)
wandb/docs: weave/guides/core-types/prompts-version.mdx

---
title: "Store and track versions of prompts"
description: "Retrieve and manage versions of your prompts for LLM applications"
---

> This page explains how prompt versioning works and how to reference, retrieve, and use specific versions in code and in production. Prompts are created and published as described in [Creating prompt objects](/weave/guides/core-types/prompts.mdx).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After [creating and publishing prompts](/weave/guides/core-types/prompts.mdx), you can reference, retrieve, and use specific versions in code and in production.
```

When you publish a prompt with `weave.publish`, Weave creates an immutable version. Each version can be referenced by name and version, retrieved in code with `weave.ref(...).get()`, and viewed in the Weave UI.

# Manage prompt versions

Prompts in Weave are stored as **versioned objects**. Each time you publish a prompt, Weave creates an immutable version that can be retrieved and used later. This allows you to safely iterate on prompts while ensuring that evaluations, experiments, and production systems can reference the exact prompt version they were run with.

Prompt versions are accessed using Weave object references. This page explains how prompt versions are created, how to retrieve a specific version in code, and how to inspect and compare versions in the Weave UI.

> 

Reviewer: nit: noticed a few areas of extra white space throughout the doc. We should probably clean that up.

## How prompt versions are created

A new prompt version is created each time a prompt is published.

Each version is immutable. Once created, the contents of that version cannot be changed. If you update a prompt and publish it again, Weave creates a new version while preserving previous versions.

Versioning enables you to:

> - reproduce past experiments.

Reviewer: pretty sure the opening words here should be capitalized: https://developers.google.com/style/lists#introductory-sentences-for-lists

Author: i thought so! it looked funny to me but i was deferring to the stupid AI here...

- safely iterate on prompt changes.
- roll out prompt updates in a controlled way.

## Reference a prompt version

Prompt versions are referenced using a Weave object ref URI.

> A fully qualified Weave object ref URI looks like this:

Reviewer: I think we can just move this line into the intro paragraph for this section

```text

> weave://<entity>/<project>/object/<object_name>:<object_version>

Reviewer: should we use the `<your-team-name>/<your-project-name>` syntax here?

Author: i debated this. but in the end it aligns with the callouts below and I wasn't sure if we wanted to change them. but since you're questioning it too, probably.

Author: unf the longer <your-team-name>/<your-project-name> does cause this snip to scroll off screen, which is a bummer since the suffix is the most important part, but regardless, it is now updated in both files.

```

- _entity_: W&B entity (username or team name)
- _project_: W&B project
- _object_name_: object name
- _object_version_: either a version hash, a string like `v0` or `v1`, or an alias like `:latest`. All objects have the `:latest` alias.

For example, a fully qualified Weave prompt URI looks like this:

```text

> weave:///your-team-name/your-project-name/object/support_prompt:v3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weave://your-team-name/your-project-name/object/support_prompt:v3
```

Author: i tested this. i got a runtime error until i added the third slash as not being formed right, so i figured it was a mistake from long ago - but do you think it is supposed to be two?

Reviewer: I should have checked this, but your original link above had two slashes and this one had three. I thought it was two because `http://`, but I guess that was incorrect. There was just an inconsistency between line 35 and line 45. It's fixed now 😅

```

## Retrieve a prompt version in code

To retrieve a prompt, create a reference to its name and version, then call `.get()` to load it. A ref points to a stored object; `.get()` fetches that object so you can use it in your application.

> You can construct refs with a few different styles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can construct refs with a few different ways:
```

"Styles" didn't hit my ear right here.

> - `weave.ref(<name>)`: requires `weave.init(...)` to have been called. Refers to the `:latest` version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `weave.ref(<name>)`: Retrieves the latest version (`:latest`). Requires calling `weave.init(...)`.
```
Rewriting it like this because this is a standard cadence for reference-style documentation. I know this is not a reference doc, but these bullets are kind of reference-y

> - `weave.ref(<name>:<version>)`: requires `weave.init(...)` to have been called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `weave.ref(<name>:<version>)`:  Retrieves the specified version of a prompt. Requires calling `weave.init(...)`.
```

> - `weave.ref(<fully_qualified_ref_uri>)`: can be constructed without calling `weave.init`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `weave.ref(<fully_qualified_ref_uri>)`: Retrieves the prompt located at the specified URI.  Does not require calling `weave.init`.
```
Should we mention how to find/retrieve the URI?

Author: i figured that is what the section is above it - defining the URI.   I will try to make this connection more explicit

Example:

```python lines
import weave

weave.init("your-team-name/your-project-name")

prompt = weave.ref("support_prompt:v3").get()
```

> The example above loads the `support_prompt:v3` version so you can use it in your application.

Reviewer: I think we can move this sentence above the example and use to introduce the example.

## Use prompt versions in production

> When deploying prompts in production systems, pin a specific prompt version rather than referencing the latest version. In your production application, load that version with `weave.ref(<name>:<version>).get()`.

Reviewer: Is "pin" a standard term? I haven't heard it used like this before, but I could just be out of the loop 😅

Author: i thought?  if you trust Gemini: yes, you can pin the latest version of your prompt in most modern AI development environments, and "pin" is considered a standard, essential term in prompt engineering and LLM application management.

Pinning a version ensures that production behavior remains stable even if new prompt versions are published later.

A common workflow looks like this:

1. Develop and test a new prompt version.
2. Evaluate the new prompt against datasets or evaluation suites.
3. Update the production system to reference the new version.

This approach allows teams to safely iterate on prompts without unexpectedly changing production behavior.

## <a id="view-prompts" aria-label="View and compare prompt versions"></a>View and compare prompt versions

> Weave automatically tracks every version of your prompts, creating a complete history of how your prompts evolve. This versioning system is crucial for prompt engineering workflows, allowing you to experiment safely, track what changes improved or hurt performance, and easily roll back to previous versions if needed. Each time you publish a prompt with the same name but different content, Weave creates a new version while preserving all previous versions. 

Reviewer: oh! This was what I was talking about above with the publish thing! I think we just need to highlight this version-update behavior when you change the prompt content, that's all.

Author: good point, i'll move this up where it belongs much better
